#summary Get started with Raccoon.
#labels gettingstarted,featured

= Introduction =

This page gives a brief introduction to Raccoon to help you get started developing your own code.


= Engine Intantiation =

The main class that implements the coding engine is `org.msrg.raccoon.engine.CodingEngineImpl` which implements the `ICodingEngine` interface. To start, you need to instantiate a Raccoon engine by specifying the number of threads in its thread pool:
{{{
int threads = 4;
ICodingEngine engine = new CodingEngineImpl(threads);
}}}

Next, you need to call `init()` in order to initialize and allocate the engine threads:
{{{
engine.init();
}}}

Finally, to get the threads pool initialization complete, you need to call:
{{{
engine.startComponent();
}}}


= Coding Tasks =

The engine operates in an asynchronous manner, that is, after you invoke an operation you immediately receive a handle which you can later use to retrieve the results. In the meantime, the engine schedules to execute the operation asynchronously. Once the operation is complete, you receive a callback that indicates the corresponding status change. To receive updates on status change of your operations, e.g., completion, error, start to execute, you need to register a listener. The listener must implement `org.msrg.raccoon.engine.ICodingListener` and provide the logic to react to operation status change. For example, once the operation is completed successfully, it must retrieve the results. The listener is registered via the engine's `registerCodingListener(ICodingListener listeners)` method:
{{{
ICoding listener; // Your implementation
engine.registerCodingListener(listener);
}}}


= Coding Operations =

The operations that are supported by the engine are defined in `org.msrg.raccoon.engine.ICodingEngine` and include data encoding and decoding, matrix multiplication, inversion (in Galois Field of G^8) and equality check. These operations are as follows:
{{{
  public CodedSlice_CodingResult encode(ICodingListener listener, CodedBatch codeBatch);
  public Equals_CodingResult decode(ICodingListener listener, ReceivedCodedBatch codeBatch);
	
  public BulkMatrix_CodingResult multiply(ICodingListener listener, ByteMatrix m, BulkMatrix bm);
  public SliceMatrix_CodingResult multiply(ICodingListener listener, ByteMatrix1D m, BulkMatrix bm);
	
  public ByteMatrix_CodingResult inverse(ICodingListener listener, ByteMatrix m);
  public Equals_CodingResult checkEquality(ICodingListener listener, SliceMatrix sm1, SliceMatrix sm2);
  public Equals_CodingResult checkEquality(ICodingListener listener, BulkMatrix bm1, BulkMatrix bm2);
}}}

= Your First Coding Operation =

The following is a simple code that executes a simple multiplication operation:

{{{


class MyCodingListener implements CodingListener {

  public void codingFinished(CodingResult result) {
    switch (result._resultsType) {
      case BOOLEAN:
      {
        if(((Equals_CodingResult)result).getResult())
          _equals ++;
        else
          _unequals ++;
        break;
      }

      case BULK_MATRIX:
      {
        BulkMatrix_CodingResult smResult = (BulkMatrix_CodingResult) result;
        BulkMatrix sm = smResult.getResult();
        if(_testType == CodingEngineTestType.TEST_FULL_MULTYPLY_TASKS && !_multipliedBM.equals(sm))
          throw new IllegalStateException("BulkMatrix is not equal to the product!");
        break;
      }

      case CODED_SLICE_MATRIX:
      {
        CodedSlice_CodingResult smResult = (CodedSlice_CodingResult) result;
        CodedPiece sm = smResult.getResult();
        break;
      }

      default:
        break;
    }
  }

  public void codingFailed(CodingResult result) {
    // Handle errors
  }

}

}}}

